[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Regina Meredith:
How would you resonate
with the magazine titled
What Doctors Don't Tell You,
well, it's here.
Lynne McTaggart decided to
put her journalistic skills
to practical use and starting
up this international
magazine devoted
to giving people information
that is untainted
by big farmer money.
The end result is a
beautiful, diverse, informative
and highly useful magazine but
not without controversy directed
at it from the medical
community, big surprise there.
Welcome back Lynne.
>> Lynne McTaggart: Thank you.
>> Regina Meredith:
It's been a little while
since we've sat together
about a year.
>> Lynne McTaggart: Yeah.
>> Regina Meredith: This
is a beautiful magazine
and its really-- what I think
what you've done is really,
you-- it's a service, you've
created and correlated a lot
of different articles and have
a lot of different features
that are useful in our everyday
lives from most people and some
of it is controversial and
that's where I want to go.
[laughs] Whereas why-- I
guess it's a no brainer
but what inspired you to
start this new magazine?
>> Lynne McTaggart: A
grand passion, Regina,
which was my own
passion to get better.
I mean I started the
way a lot of people do
when they investigate something.
I needed to find
out why I was ill
and this was in the mid '80s.
And after awhile I went from
very conventional doctors
to the very outer
rim of alternatives.
And when no one could figurer
out what was wrong with me,
I decided, well, if I'm going
to get better I'm going to have
to research the-- myself.
So, I researched
what I thought I had
and I then found a
specialist doctor
who was a really a pioneer
in nutritional medicine
to get me better.
And together we were a
partnership in working on these.
And the experience was so heady
and amazing in transformative
for me, I just got kind
of boring on this subject.
I started telling everybody
about it proselytizing about--
>> RM: So they run.
>> LM: -- function medicine.
>> RM: Would you
like a cup of tea?
No, I have other things going.
Don't want to hear about it.
[laughs]
>> LM: Yeah.
Exactly. And so, my husband
after awhile just said, "Well,
don't tell me, tell the world."
So, we started a
news letter back
in 1989 called What Doctors
Don't Tell You which was full
of all this controversial stuff
but then we felt the time was
right last year to launch this
as a magazine, a
general feature magazine
and that's what we've been
doing-- doing ever since.
>> RM: Beautiful work.
OK. So, you're a-- you have a
panel of doctors as your experts
which is good, that was
a very smart thing to do
but tell us a little bit
about the various people
that you enlisted
on an editorial level
for the magazine.
>> LM: Well, each of them are
specialists in particular areas
but they're all-- they all share
one thing which is an open mind.
You're open-minded.
They're pioneers in
different areas often
nutritional medicine.
We've got one fellow who is
a natural path acupuncturist,
osteopath and herbalist,
an herbalist.
I mean, he's a mix of
all of those things
so he's quite special.
>> RM: Amazing.
>> LM: And which is--
>> RM: When we look
through the pages.
>> LM:Dr. Harald Gaier
[assumed spelling].
>> RM: OK.
>> LM: I mean he is remarkable.
He's just a remarkable
researcher
as well as practitioner.
And we just try to find people
like that who were specialists
in new ideas about food,
new ideas about supplements.
We have one guy who specializes
in treating no hopers.
People with cancer, people
with multiple sclerosis
and he's got thousands
of people better
with a very different approach.
>> RM: Yeah.
And there are-- I've interviewed
a couple people like that here
in America as well, Dr, James
Forsythe [assumed spelling]
and it's like all
of them have to go
through the same kind
of trial however.
>> LM: Absolutely.
>> RM: In terms of--
it's difficult.
And so, let me just
ask you upfront.
When you launched the magazine,
because now it's glossier,
it's bigger, you
have a bigger reach,
it's not just a newsletter,
what happened with the medical
and pharmaceutical
industry's response?
>> LM: Well, we had
an organization
that is it is backed, it's
sponsored by certain elements
of the pharmaceutical
industry and other areas,
that claims to have to be
sensible about science,
and they attempted to ban us.
They wrote to our distributors,
they wrote to the news agents
who carry us, they
wrote to supermarkets.
They try to cover everybody to
say this magazine is dangerous
and it should be
taken off the shelves.
Well, it backfired.
The magazine became much
more popular as a result.
>> RM: I love that.
>> LM: And we had thousands
of supporters writing
in to the same people,
the supermarkets,
the news agents et
cetera saying,
"We really like what
they're doing.
We want this magazine."
So, and the distributors
themselves found that they're--
they were taking
the magazine home.
They were avidly reading it.
So, you know, it's made
absolutely no difference.
But we've also had, you know,
the medical profession tried
to catch us out with
material but all
of this stuff is
very well researched.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: I mean, we read
the medical literature.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: I'm often times on camera
with doctors and I'm probably,
you know, I probably
know more about what's
in the medical literature
than they do.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: Just the from the fact
that we're studying
it all the time.
>> RM: But it doesn't stop.
Well, skeptic-- it's called
skeptical that I think UK
or something like that.
I was looking at some
of their comments,
pseudoscience pa
[phonetic] and all of that.
You-- it stirred up a lot of
controversy because if you go
in the page you'll find your
site and then you'll find all
of these just terrific
comments all
from the medical
industry, all from doctors.
>> LM: Absolutely, and
of course, they go into.
I mean we have an
inflammatory title.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: What Doctors
Don't Tell You.
>> RM: Don't tell you [laughs].
>> LM: We're not
playing our punches.
We feel this information
has to get out there.
>> RM: Well, you're
right about that.
What about what's
happening in the UK?
Because you're an American who's
married to a Brit who is living
in UK and have been for a long
time, that's your culture now.
What is happening there
regarding some of the laws
and also in the EU, UK
and EU because I read all
of these emails and such it
come through where herbalist,
homeopaths, all different types
of alternative practitioners
are constantly
under some kind of threat?
Can you tell us what's going on?
>> LM: Yeah.
Several years ago, in
the European Union,
the EU there was a decision
made to harmonize the business
of vitamins and alternative
medicine
and alternative medicine
products.
And the idea was to have an
economic level of playing field
so that all of the
countries would be able to buy
in each other's products 'cause
otherwise there was a nightmare
of different loss
about, you know,
levels of supplements et cetera.
That was the ostensible reason.
The actual reason was a highly
political situation funded
by the pharmaceutical industry
to try to takeover control
and finally squash the
independent vitamin
business basically.
So, they put forward a bunch
of laws that would restrict,
severely restrict the kind
of supplements we
could buy as public.
And they would be only certain
kinds that we're licensed
and the licensed after testing
which requires, you know,
companies like Big Pharma,
we have deep pockets
in order to do this testing.
And as well, it would favor
the kind of synthetic kind
of vitamins that
are mass produced.
They also wanted to lower
the limits of the kind
of the top level of
vitamins that are allowed.
And then aside from that,
they wanted to restrict
certain herbal medicine,
the kind that is
used and enjoyed
and has been demonstrated
to be safe over hundreds
and hundreds of years.
You know, things that we
all take like Goldenseal
or Dong quai, you
know, the one that's
so many women take during
menopause et cetera, et cetera.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: Even Akinesia under
thread, all of these kinds
of things, and homeopathy next.
So, this is a concerted campaign
against natural medicine
and it's going to come to
this shores too in America.
>> RM: Well, how far
have they gotten in terms
of their attempts
in the UK and EU?
>> LM: Well, the EU has
definitely passed some laws
about limiting certain vitamins.
What they haven't set are
the upper limits as to how,
you know, how much we can
have in each supplement.
So, that is under
discussion and debate.
And certain--
>> RM: Its [inaudible].
>> LM: Well, yes.
I mean, it'd be crazy and it's
a little bit like prohibition.
You know, if you do that
you're going to simply unleash,
you know, the unlicensed--
>> RM: Huge black
market, you bet.
>> LM: Yes, exactly.
>> RM: People I'm going
to stop taking them.
>> LM: No.
>> RM: They'll just find more
creative ways of procuring them.
>> LM: Exactly.
But we found that certain
things like certain
of those herbs are
off the shelves now.
And there's--
>> RM: Which ones?
>> LM: Well, it's
harder to get things
like Goldenseal,
now that it was.
>> RM: And seriously,
things that directly
impact the immune system
and really would go up against
the antibiotics industry, right?
>> LM: Exactly.
And that's what they're
attacking.
>> RM: Oh, that's so sad.
>> LM: I know.
But there is a big
blow back now going on.
And there are, you know, there
are hundreds of thousands
of people, if not millions
of people in the EU
who enjoyed these products and
are trying to fight against it.
But this has been going on
since-- actually, since 2003.
And as I say, it's
coming to America.
It's coming to the world
because there are similar laws
that are being attempted to be
passed by Codex Alimentarius
which is the big committee
inside the United Nations.
>> RM: We've been hearing
about that for a while.
Talk about that because I
kind of dropped the thread
of that story a couple of years
ago and haven't picked it up.
>> LM: Well, I think the
bottom line is Regina
that it's very similar.
They're trying to do the same.
They're trying to limit
the kinds of vitamins
that you can get to the kind of
mass produced synthetic versions
that are created primarily
by the major companies,
the large companies.
So, that would again, squeeze
out the small innovative
natural products, you know,
or natural companies who
devoted to natural products
that are the ones that are
really involved in wellness.
And as well, they're trying to
cap the sealing on, you know,
the level of vitamins.
So, and these are
powerful concerted efforts.
>> RM: How does that
even work when you're--
when they're asking to have some
kind of standardization on herbs
which grow naturally different,
soils affect them according
to season and, you know,
you have very few deaths
that are attributed to
vitamins, minerals, and herbs
and homeopathy for example
compared to allopathic medicine
which is hundreds of
thousands of deaths a year?
How do they even suppose
that can be tested no less
than in these very sterile
multi-billion dollar labs?
>> LM: Once again, they
do it by standardizing it
by creating a drug
of these herbs.
So, what they do is
take isolate the--
you know, the active ingredient
and then cheapen the herb
by taking away a lot of
those secondary elements
that really make it
work synergistically.
So, that's essentially
what they're looking
to is basically creating
drugs of vitamins and herbs.
So, I think it's really
important for people
to make some noise about
this because this is going
to affect everybody in the
natural medicine community
and all of those millions
of people who stay well
through these products.
>> RM: What about
backyard gardens
and certain edible herbs
comprehend these sorts
of things.
Are they going after any of
those common things that we grow
in our backyard if the person
themselves is growing them?
>> LM: No, you can't
legislate against that.
>> RM: Good.
>> LM: Unless you have,
you know, the police coming
around you, knocking
on everybody's store.
>> RM: Right.
So, really, I mean it's
coming down to having
to basically plant your own
herbal medicinal garden.
And I know a lot of people are
doing that certainly in the west
in America will have started.
>> LM: Well, it needs
good sense.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: I mean, if the kind
of crackdown comes here
that is threatened in Europe.
But as I say, there are many,
many people fighting back.
But I think it's
important for all of us
to shout pretty loudly
right now.
>> RM: Well, I've heard a story
that I thought it was very
encouraging, you know,
it made me whoop it up anyway.
I mean, I can't mention
who's going to be doing this
but there is going to
be some testing going
on with a very sophisticated
piece of machinery
that shows the full spectrum
of everything in foods
and in supplements
basically anything you wish
to put under the scope.
It takes kind of special
reading and technical ability
to assess it and that's going
to be released publicly.
So, you find out what
fillers, what kind of toxins
and so forth are embedded in
all of the large manufactures
of pharmaceuticals but also
even vitamin manufacturers
who are putting out the
really cheap synthetic stuff
and not caring about
life force and affect
on the public at large.
>> LM: That would be fabulous
because it'll finally
demonstrate
to people what these supposed
supplements are made of.
And I think it's really
important for people to have
as much information as possible
and to understand that a lot
of so many products get
put out there on the market
without us having the truth
about what's actually in them.
And that goes for personal
care products as well.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: And home products as well
as the stuff we put
in our mouths.
>> RM: Yeah, a lot of
greenwashing going on too.
So, we have to watch
out for that one
because those claims they
may have one natural item
and a bucket load of
garbage otherwise.
Let's talk about where you
just mentioned a moment ago
which is how this
stuff is put out there.
There's a lot of
marketing money out there
for this, a lot of spin.
And you and I were talking off
camera about that a little bit
and one of the subjects which
really as you going is Gardasil.
Let's talk about how
something is spun?
>> LM: OK.
Well, Gardasil is supposedly
the cervical cancer vaccine
and it was launched
several years ago.
And the way that they did it
was possibly the most cynical,
you know, thing that
I've ever seen.
The drug company created a
television ad campaign directed
right to the 12-year-olds
that they are targeting
with that vaccine
bypassing their parents.
They made it look cool
to get this vaccine.
The whole catch line
was one less, you know,
I want to be one less dead.
>> RM: Like one less dead, yeah.
>> LM: Yeah, with
cervical cancer.
And, you know, it was
appalling because first
of all it was total spin.
The vaccine doesn't
prevent cervical cancer.
It just targets certain
two strains of the virus
that may 'cause cervical cancer.
So, and it doesn't
actually work very well.
So, all of that was just
probably, you know, it reached,
you know, a drug
company reached its nadir
in attempting to
market a product.
What this goes on all the
time and of course in America
where they're allowed to
market drugs on the air.
This happens all the time.
It's just about the case with
every drug-- the every drug.
It's new spin over science.
>> RM: But that was
particularly reprehensible
that they were going
after basically old
[inaudible] set you.
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: Pubescent people.
>> LM: Yes, absolutely,
absolutely.
>> RM: And their parent and
of course [inaudible], "Mom,
I need to get the vaccine.
And even if their parents did
not agree to it, you know,
just to create this kind
of popularization of it.
>> LM: Yeah.
"Mom, I don't want to die."
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: You know,
with the whole idea.
>> RM: Yeah.
What are you going to say
to your daughter, right?
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: But it wasn't
just daughters.
I mean, HPV and the vaccine
they were also trying--
were they trying to enlist
boys for that as well?
>> LM: Yeah.
Well, they wanted to--
they started marketing
it to boys too.
>> RM: So, this is
a little touchy.
I mean, we were going
to talk about this
about Michael Douglas.
And the whole-- all of the--
[ Laughter ]
>> Yeah, the media around
throat cancer and all of that.
>> LM: Yes.
Yes.
>> RM: Is that just something
that is so much more hype
or are there really big
statistics to support
that amount of programming
around the subject too?
>> LM: No.
It's very rare as
you get it orally.
[laughs]
>> RM: Yeah [laughs].
>> LM: It's very rare that you
get it orally and, you know,
I don't really want
to go there--
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: -- as what
he was thinking but,
you know, in so many ways.
There's so many things wrong
with what he was talking about.
It's hard to know
where to start.
>> RM: Things that could've
been good for the marriage.
>> LM: I know, exactly.
So, but I think, you know,
the real problem here is the
classic thing that goes on with
so many vaccines
which is first of all,
the vaccine where
is very imperfectly
and it doesn't really
cure cancer.
That's total hype, total hype.
It doesn't prevent cancer.
It prevents two strains
of a load of HPV.
And certainly doesn't go
after the vast majority
of cervical cancer.
And the vaccine has
so many side effects.
I've spoken with many,
many parents who's
children either died or--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- were damaged
from this vaccine.
And it's-- to do something
like this as you say,
the word is reprehensible.
>> RM: How the-- has
there been in the backlash
and that the numbers
of girls being taken
in for this vaccine has dropped?
Since, some of the deaths were
publicized or is still going?
>> LM: No, in America
the numbers have dropped.
In the UK where there's been a
blackout from that information,
there was barely
anybody making any kind
of noise except what
doctors don't tell you
against that vaccine.
I mean we published a big
story, the selling of Gardasil,
and revealed the
whole story from--
and all of the information
about even doctors
who were complaining
about that vaccine
because they're seeing the
carnage that's going on.
>> RM: Let's talk a little
bit about terse in general.
The British Medical
Association itself say it only
about like 12 percent or-- is
it the British Medical Journal?
Yeah--
>> LM: Yeah, yes.
>> RM: Said about 12
percent of the various drugs
and therapies actually work.
>> LM: Yes, have been
proven to work, absolutely.
They looked at all of
the major treatments
and that includes not just
drugs but other treatments.
And they were really talking
about how much is
actually been proven to be
and they studied all of the
literature around these studies
and yeah, you're talking
about just 12 percent.
Now--
>> RM: And subjecting
ourselves to these things with--
these horrendous side effects
for a 12 percent chance
of a natural cure or
reversal symptoms anyway.
>> LM: You know, it's
really hard for us
to accept this because,
you know,
we really have built our
lives around the idea
that medicine is a science and
that, you know, we like to have
that kind of certainty
and we believe, you know,
doctors are working with
well proven products
and we have the FDA
and other organizations
that really study this stuff.
And, you know, and make sure
that these things are safe.
But the bottom line is this is a
highly, highly corrupt industry
with the vast majority--
vast majority of its products
have not, and the vast majority
of the treatments we take
for granted have never
been proven to work.
And I hate to say it, but the
vast majority are nothing more
than 21st century voodoo.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: And so, it's, you know,
it's quite frightening that--
but, the other half of
that coin, the other side
of that coin is that
there's an enormous body
of evidence demonstrating
the efficacy and the safety
of a lot of natural medicine.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: Everything from ancient
systems like acupuncture
and homeopathy to or-- older
systems like homeopathy to--
very cutting edge things
in energy medicine.
>> RM: And we're going to
talk about the energy medicine
in a bit but I'm-- I--
what about the system,
the British system of medicine
compared to American system
where you have more
nationalized [inaudible].
Were-- how does--
I can understand in a privatized
system and systems of HBO--
HMOs-- HBO [laughs], where you
would have a massive amount
of corruption, there's a--
a lot entities have a
lot to gain from that.
But, how does it work in Britain
when such a high percentage
of the doctors are
actually working
under governmental
medical programs.
>> LM: You know, we always
say it's not the carpenter,
it's his tools, you know,
we don't think the bad
guys here are doctors.
We think doctors are in the
main trying to do their best,
trying to cure people,
trying to use what they can.
The problem is not
him, it's his tools.
The tools that they are given
are basically surgery and drugs.
And drugs in-- and also of
course medical products,
drugs are our business,
there are big--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- corrupt business.
They're one of the most
profitable businesses
in the world.
And drug companies have vast
or missive people to put a lot
of spin on their products,
to make them look better
than they are, safer
than they are.
And that corruption goes
all through the line
and they have a lot of good
friends in government agencies.
And so, these products
get put on the market.
And doctors get educated
by drug companies.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: You know, drug detail
men as they call them go
into doctors offices
and tell them
about their latest treatments.
And so, and they're
even given free samples
and all sorts of induces.
>> RM: So, it's pretty
much the same there,
is it is in the United
States, yeah.
>> LM: Oh, absolutely.
It's international
western medicine now.
And, you know, the
medical literature is there
for a reason, it's there to show
doctors around the world what,
you know, what is
being studied in drugs.
So, that's the kind of medicine
that everybody from the US
to China is going to use in
terms of allopathic medicine.
So, we have the same issues,
the only thing we don't have
is doctors that were paid
as much in the public set--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- sector.
But, they use the same tools.
>> RM: Well' they have
been very successful.
The pharmaceutical companies
that I think it's
the largest lobby
or second largest lobby
in the United States.
>> LM: Oh, absolutely and
they have managed to get lots
of people to turn a blind eye
to some of the dangers of,
you know, of these
drugs, of these tools.
And that's why we felt compelled
to bring this out in a magazine
because we felt somebody had
to make this private
conversation public,
because that's the thing,
medicine is a private
conversation.
We read the medical literature,
our team of researchers
and we study what goes on
and we see shocking stuff
in the medical literature.
All kinds of stories saying,
you know, we've done this study
and this drug doesn't work
or this drug harms people
or this procedure really
isn't necessary, you know,
this mammograms,
they're not necessary
and they're actually dangerous
or something like that.
Now, that never gets
relayed to patients.
>> RM: No it doesn't.
>> LM: That private
conservation.
So, all we're doing is taking
medicines private conversation
and making that public.
>> RM: Well, and also
the studies themselves
which they rely on to basically
frighten the populous of large
into going a certain direction
in terms of medical care.
Those are highly
fraudulent in a lot of cases.
Now, some of them
have been busted
where they simply remove
the elements of the study
that show the problematic
nature of their drugs.
And, you know, they cherry pick
and they based their statistics
on a couple of them that
may have actually benefited.
Why are more of these
guys in jail,
I don't understand why this--
they haven't been prosecuted
and send to jail, because
this is common practice.
>> LM: Well, as you
say it's kind
of infiltrated the whole system
is-- has been infiltrated.
I mean what happens
with most drug companies
and drugs being tested
is they get tested.
And this is well know, this
is written about in things
like the British
Medical Journal and the--
you know, in the land
set and the journal
of the American Medical
Association all know of,
write about and worry
about this problem.
When the drug gets studied,
the drug company then hires
a specialist medical public
relations person to put spin
on that study, to lose some
or minimize some of the
negative elements of the study.
They then scout around for a
prestigious doctor or some kind
of person in the
medical community
to put his or her name to this.
So, these-- these papers
which are basically PR dressed
up as research, then make their
way to the medical journals.
And that recently some
organizations in medicine
who have been alarmed by
this recon that something
like 75 percent, three
quarters of everything published
in the medical literature
is written by PR people.
Three quarters, three quarters.
>> RM: Interesting.
>> LM: So, I mean this is
completely appalling, you know,
it's completely shocking and
that's the kind of stuff upon
which your doctor is going
to base his decision
as to your care.
>> RM: And then in
addition if you back it
up a little further-- oh,
well number of years ago
when I was doing
investigative reporting--
I won't name the university now,
but there was a prominent
university,
a large medical program
and I happen
to have been given access--
I don't know how the
person procured it,
a list of the funders
for all the departments
and various studies.
In every single case I
didn't see any exceptions.
The person or the corporation
or group, non-profit,
whatever that was
funding it had something
to gain from the outcome.
So, every single one had a point
of view before the
research ever began.
>> LM: Oh, absolutely and
I mean virtually, you know,
almost all of the medical
literature about drugs is funded
by the drug companies
who themselves, you know,
stand to gain by the--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- sales of
their product.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: So, again the whole
system is highly corrupt
and it really needs to
be dismantled and set.
And the same thing occurs
in Britain, you know,
it has no difference, because
again the doctors based the use
of their, you know, the
base to your decisions
on the medical literature
and on what were--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- been told by the drug
companies and there is that,
you know, there is that
suspect research all the time.
>> RM: Right.
At least that we've come to
laugh about the disclaimers--
if you see a television
ad we can laugh it off
but people still buy this stuff.
And partly because if you
are under the umbrella
of an HMO you get
what they give you.
And as you say the tools are
extremely prejudiced towards
what you ever has
been buying, you know,
kind of forced on them.
>> LM: Yes.
And now, there is this
concerted campaign,
pharmaceutically backed to try
to eliminate any alternatives.
But, you know, happily despite
that very grim picture more
and more young doctors coming
to the floor are getting
interested in, you know,
what they call functional
medicines.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: You know, the use of
natural substances to heal
and they're seeing that
these tools don't work
and that they need
better alternatives.
>> RM: Yeah, that's really--
>> LM: And they are
looking for it.
>> RM: -- the saving grace, yes.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: And getting multiple
degrees in MD that we go ahead
and become licensed in
homeopathy or naturopath
against naturopath status
and I'm seeing a lot of that.
>> LM: Yes.
And it's-- I mean
it's not before time,
because I mean we have to
realize that 70 percent
of Americans for instance are
on at least one medication.
And many of them on
many medications,
and the final statistics in the
level of illness here, you know,
is the final story, it's
not only not doing any good
and then the main is, you
know, is harming people.
You know, the other horrible
statistic is, you know,
I heard that this
wonderful statistics
that actually you are
three times more--
I think, no six times
more likely to be killed
by your doctor than by a gun.
>> RM: Yes, absolutely.
>> LM: In the [inaudible]--
so, there are--
>> RM: It's true.
>> LM: -- you know, lots of
statistics showing that--
>> RM: We need to disarm them.
>> LM: Yes, that, you know,
modern medicine is the
fourth leading cause of death
after heart disease,
stroke and cancer.
And so, with all of these
terrible statistics,
you have to really get that
modern medicine isn't working.
And so, you know, our job is
really to try to not only look
at very critically, you
know, particular medicine
for particular conditions,
but also to say,
"OK, what to do instead."
What else works and we try to
subject alternative medicine,
natural medicine to the
same kind of scrutiny
that we give conventional
medicine.
>> RM: Well, that was kind of
what I was going to ask you
about next, because on
the other hand you have--
I mean, if you go to a
natural life expo, my God,
there are thousands
and thousands
of booth selling the
exact same products.
And again, because it isn't
standardized I mean thank God,
but because it is you
can make a lot of claims.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: So, how--
what are you finding
in doing your do
diligence toward the natural
medical community.
>> LM: Well, first of all we
expose when there are products.
We'd look at natural products--
>> RM: And get nasty products.
>> LM: -- as well as, you know,
as well as natural treatments.
And when there are
products that claim
that they are 100 percent
natural, we'll disclose when--
when it's not when they're
actually parabens in there or,
you know, sodium lauryl
sulfate or anyone of a number
of potentially dangerous
chemicals will expose that too.
And if the treatment has said--
well, it's proven to work
or if a treatment has nothing to
demonstrate that it, you know,
that it works, no
evidence to show
that it works will
say-- will say so.
We try to be very
even handed with that
and basically we just
want to say, "OK,
what works and what doesn't?"
>> RM: Right.
This is off the top my head,
but it's a bugaboo and a lot
of people look for
this magnesium steroid.
Is that on your no,
no list because it is
in so many vitamins and
there's some evidence
that it's not good to--
for us to be ingesting
magnesium steroids--
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: -- especially
that the base of--
a hand full of different
vitamins
that a person is
taking in a day.
>> LM: Yes.
Well, yes I mean there's a lot
of what they call excipients,
you know, with little
bits of things and added.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: And you have
to look at that too.
This is why it's really
concerning the idea that large,
large companies would
take over and produce--
mass produced vitamins.
In order to do that, they
have to add these excipients,
this added-- add the things
which will cause problems.
And there's also certain
kinds of versions of vitamins
that are good and
certain kinds that aren't.
I mean they now know
that only certain kinds
of vitamin E are healthy for you
and other kinds are
cancer promoting.
So, it's really important
to stay on top of that kind
of information to
which we tried to do.
>> RM: Yes, you do a
beautiful job on it.
>> LM: Thanks.
>> RM: I think it's--
I mean obviously it's ordered
toward natural cures in general.
Natural--
>> LM: Sure.
>> RM: -- yes, natural
treatments, natural products
and alternative products of
various kinds, but I did notice
that you do, do the
diligence in there.
So, that's-- I want
to-- sad to say that
>> LM: We tried to and
we tried to say, yeah,
we try to also say,
it's horses for courses
because I will say right now.
If I walk out of here
and a building falls
on me I want the best
of high-tech medicine
to put me back together again.
>> RM: Absolutely.
For trauma, it's great.
Yeah.
>> LM: It's perfect,
it's unparalleled
but for almost every
chronic disease there--
modern medicine actually
doesn't cure,
it just suppresses symptoms.
And there are many, many
other cures out there
that are safer and
more effective.
>> RM: One of the areas speaking
of is various energy
types of technologies.
There are so many devices out
there, some of them advertise
in your magazine, scalar
frequency type devices
and what is your take on
that I mean the government--
how do you come after
them, right?
It's energy medicine.
It seems like it's slipping
between some cracks in terms
of the ability for oversight.
>> LM: Yes.
And that's an interesting point
because I will say right now.
I mean I get bombarded
through by other work
with the field, etcetera,
et cetera.
With people writing
to me saying, "Hey,
I've harnessed your point
energy" kind of thing.
And, you know, there's a lot
of products that are very,
very promising and have
some interesting research.
And-- or wonderful
anecdotal evidence to success
and a big body of success.
And there's others that
have absolutely no evidence,
whatsoever and are essentially,
you know, woo woo [phonetic].
So, there's-- you know, there
are some great things going on.
And of course when you--
it comes to energy medicine
it's going to be much harder
to regulate that, but
on the other hand if--
when you look at
actual regulation,
our regulatory system isn't
working anyway, you know,
looking at what it does with
drug companies, you know,
it doesn't regulate
the dangerous stuff
that gets put on the market.
It doesn't prevent it.
There are too many
friends and that--
this has happened really just
in the last two decades, I mean,
I remember doing
stories and exposes
as an investigative reporter
on drugs, certain drugs
and the way drugs
were being tested.
And the FDA back
then and this was
in the '80s I guess
were the good guys.
They were going after
corrupted--
>> RM: Yeah, they
were once upon a time.
>> LM: Yeah, they were
going after corruption
and now there's just too
many friends in there.
So, they don't regulate
what needs to be regulated,
but I think what's going to be
interesting if there is an--
a huge crackdown, it will be
the way forward for people
in natural medicine to
go to spiritual healers
or people using emotional
freedom techniques or things
like that, they cannot
be regulated.
You can't stop that.
>> RM: I mean in the
end where energy--
you worked with the field I mean
an intention for so many years,
in the end that is
probably going
to be our greatest ally is A,
our mind, our belief systems,
our ability to hold focus
on energetically for
a proper outcome.
I mean it sounds esoteric
in new age but its not,
that's fundamental
ancient doctrines many,
many different systems
of ancient philosophies
and knowledge knew about these
things, and utilize them.
>> LM: Absolutely, and I mean
I think we're coming back
to that idea, cutting edge
science is showing us why
allopathic medicine
doesn't work.
Because, the problem is the
allopathic model is based
on a very linear materialistic
view of the body as a batch
of electricity and
chemical signaling.
And the idea of that, you can
take a drug and it will have--
it have A that slots
into slot B,
but the body doesn't
work like that.
>> RM: No.
>> LM: Taking a drug
actually hits slot B, C,
D and all the way to Z--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- because we are
a complex interconnected
dynamic organism.
And we work much
more-- and our--
the way we operate is much more
holistic and also energetic.
And so, that's why we get
all of the side effects we do
with drugs is they, you know,
the linear model just doesn't
work and that's why the most--
some of the most exciting
medicine and ideas
about medicine work with
frequency rather than chemicals.
>> RM: I'm very excited
about some of those.
I've been using a new one--
I'll mention down the road
because someone gave it
to me to experiment with.
Just be on prototype status
but I'll tell you what,
it's a scalar wave device and I
thought I'll try it for sleep,
for deep sleep and I've
been using it about a week
and I am sleeping like a
baby, you've come up to--
for whatever reason and
drift right back down again.
And there's-- there
is no side effect.
It's just a frequency working
with that particular spectrum
of my own brain waves.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: And I find great
hope in some of those.
What-- you mentioned
earlier there's some
that work pretty well.
Can you give us a-- an idea
of some technologies you
found to be quite valid?
>> LM: Well, I mean
let's just take emotional
freedom techniques.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: I mean they
are phenomenally good.
They are based on-- there's
some good evidence for that
and there's also fabulous
evidence for a tech--
I mean huge body of
research for a thing called--
I think it's EMDR
which is essentially
when you've been traumatized,
if therapies work with you
who knows how to do this
and will have you relive the
experience as he moves his hand
or she moves here
hand back and forth.
And you're supposed to remember
the trauma while you watch their
moving hand.
And there's something in the
brain that rewires essentially--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- or tunes down
the emotional content
of that experience when you are
carrying out this, you know,
these two test at
ones like this.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: So, it's a
fascinating idea and that's
where emotional freedom
techniques
and thought filed therapy--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- and those kinds
of energy psychology
approaches really came from.
And there's just enormous
body of research around EMDR,
but there's a growing body of
research about the other two.
How brilliant they are
for trauma victims.
They've used thought
field therapy.
In places like Rowanda and
places where there is, you know,
just mass genocide,
Kosovo and, you know,
where people were amazingly,
you know, hugely traumatized,
and have had something like
98 percent success rates.
I mean you just cannot get that
with any other kind of modality.
So, and this is something
completely without side effects.
So, I'm tremendously excited by
those things and their potential
to help all kinds of emotional--
emotional basis of illness.
>> RM: Yes, because
as you said that is--
it's all tied in this
very delicate interwoven--
this interwoven fields of ours
into the physical and as you say
if the emotional portion is
off, if you have stuck trauma
in there, it's very hard
for the body to be able
to free itself just for
the electrical circuitry
to even operate properly to
move the proper signals around.
And all of these things you're
talking about do a beautiful job
at that and it was five years
ago I interviewed a fellow named
David Berceli.
And he was doing-- I
think it was called
"trauma release exercises,"
it's become a big deal
and been renamed since then.
That's another one
specifically dealing with PTST.
He did his studies initially
on soldiers returning,
but everybody has some of
that stuck in there being
where you've had an
unpleasant shock of some kind
that just kind of traps energy
in a certain area of the body
or the matrix around it.
The etheric field or what not.
And that was again
another technique
where you just release the flow
of that trapped trauma
in the body.
>> LM: Well, yes, and I
think what's, you know,
what's so interesting is,
you know, we in this kind
of community who are interested
in natural things are--
it's very easy to
get into the idea
that if I just eat really well
and I take certain
vitamins, that's it.
I will be healthy.
And I was fascinated speaking
with the doctor who was
in the Bay Area near San
Francisco who had this kind
of very healthy living clientele
but she found that, you know,
about half of her
patients were so healthy
and the other half
were sick as dogs.
No matter what they
took and what they ate.
And she looked closer
into their lives
and she found many
unfulfilled longings or--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- terrible
relationships or that kind
of trapped wrapped syndrome
in their jobs or whatever.
But, something emotional
was array
and that was probably more
important than anything
in making them or well--
>> RM: The determining factor.
>> RM: Is that-- there's that
study about cancer that it has
to do with-- when
people give up hope.
And then just go
on with their lives
and suddenly they
start having reversals.
>> LM: Yeah, yeah
they just say OK.
>> RM: Because the worry
is gone, the pressure--
the mind isn't interfering
anymore.
>> LM: Yeah, yeah they
just-- they just say, "OK,
I've got cancer and now I better
go out and get the groceries
or whatever and that's it.
Another thing that really
helps to and we cover
in the magazine is the
whole power of connection.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: You know connection is
also possibly the best drug we
could ever take, you know,
studies of the Japanese who are,
you know, smoke like chimneys.
Fine that they don't have
very much heart disease
until they move to places like--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- America.
And then if they leave America--
American isolated lifestyle,
they then get heart disease
that parallels the
rate in the states.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: But, those that
maintain close ties in America.
If they do recreate that
kind of close communal tie.
They don't get ill, no matter
what they eat whether it's tofu
and sushi or Big Mac and fries.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: You know.
So, connection is another piece
of that puzzle that's really
important for good health.
>> RM: Just that whole
motion of peace and harmony
and feeling loved and
part of something.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: That seems to me, that's
a number one line in defense
when it comes to immune systems.
>> LM: Absolutely, that being--
being part of something bigger.
>> RM: Yes.
I know a lot of people
who are just, you know,
obsessively following the
next best thing in health
and I wish I've done
plenty of that myself.
I mean I'm curious and I've
been following the health trends
for probably every 30 years now.
And went, you know, out there
running before it was popular
to run as a little
girl and all that.
And yet-- and I am
relatively healthy,
but I still see as you do.
A lot of people that are doing
the same thing even more so,
but I can't seem to find
that equilibrium at all.
>> LM: No.
And I think it's important
to be on vitamins--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- and beyond.
You know, are you living
the life you want to live?
That is again--
>> RM: Huge.
>> LM: -- huge.
Absolutely
>> RM: And you do
a really a good job
of covering all of these areas.
I mean it really is a holistic
magazine in your approach
to what health is right down
to, you know, physiology
and even exercising
in there, you know.
The most effective little
short burst of for, you know,
a big bang for your
buck, you know,
even how to tighten your butt.
[laughs] I mean here
you go into some
of the stuff you find another
women's magazines but--
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: -- it's a good
science, very efficient.
>> LM: What we try to do to
is we try to be contrarians--
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: -- about things to
even the tighten your butt,
goes against a lot
of what people say
or getting flat abs are exercise
guru that we have riding
in there talks about
that crunches are some
of the worst things that
you can do for yourself
because they will ruin
your posture, you know.
If you're going to do crunches
do it over a Swiss ball.
So, we try to look at, you
know, again we're looking
at the standard stuff
people get on exercise--
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: -- and being
critical with that too.
>> RM: Well, so what are
the best ab exercises
if you're not suppose
to crunch it up.
>> LM: Well, doing them over
a Swiss ball is brilliant--
>> RM: Oh, I-- that
is from the front
>> LM: Because-- yeah.
>> RM: OK
>> LM: Because, you
know, being bent back--
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: -- and then
coming over because
that also aligns your posture.
And that's an interesting one
for women because a lot of women
who think they don't like
their bust and they want
to have breast implants.
A lot of it says our exercise
guru has to do with bad posture.
Not-- and if you correct that
posture you'll be, you know,
you get natural high
so to speak.
>> RM: Yeah, natural.
Well, that makes perfect sense.
You're developing a set
of muscles it's atrophied
more or less.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: It's the foundation
for your bust line.
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: And other thing you--
I wrote about, because I read
about in your magazine
just because it's one
of my favorite topics says
you deal with the sun,
talking about debunking the
doctors who debunk the value
of sitting out in the sun.
Let's talk about that
for a little bit.
>> LM: Well, there has been this
whole idea that the sun is bad
for you essentially that you've
got this-- puts sun cream on,
you've got to protect
yourself from the sun.
But what people don't
recognize is
that possibly the
most important vitamin
and undervalued vitamin is
vitamin D. I mean it's not only
great for your bones,
it's great for everything.
Any kind of illness you want
to mention often time comes
with the deficiency vitamin
D. So, we need vitamin D
and we get it mostly
from the sun.
So, just think about this.
If we're covering
ourselves up all the time
with vitamin D we're-- you know,
we are preventing
ourselves from getting that.
We've also found there's a
really interesting connection
between lack of vitamin D and
the development of diabetes.
So, vitamin D is
really critical.
On the other hand,
sun creams are being--
remember, there are load
of chemicals and that mix
of having the sun cream and
also using it when you're
out in the sun seems to
also promote all kinds
of problems possibly even
sun cancer-- skin cancer.
>> RM: Skin cancer.
>> LM: So, the thing we're using
is prevention could be the thing
that's actually causing
the problem.
>> RM: And speaking
of prevention I was reading
a couple of little articles
in there on the subject because
its summertime issues we're
looking at--
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: -- in sun care.
It was saying that
eating dark chocolate
and even consuming coffee
somehow has a protective effect
on the skin when it comes to
the sun, is that true or is
that just one of those
feel good things?
>> LM: No, I wish it were
just a feel good thing
but no, it's true.
>> RM: Really?
>> LM: I mean there's--
it's really interesting,
you can actually create
a lot of natural sun--
sun cream yourself and
sun protection yourself.
That isn't going to have the
bad affects of chemicals.
One of those is the B vitamins.
B vitamins provide
much more protection,
chocolate seems to create more--
>> RM: Is it the flavonoids or--
>> LM: Yes, there's something
in the chocolate that seems
to be protective, is though
you're wearing some sort
of sun cream, it creates
more melanin in the skin
and so creates a kind
of natural protection.
>> RM: Oh, so that
brings us to coco butter.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: Is coco butter one
of those things it's somewhat
protection on the skin
or does it more fry you?
>> LM: I haven't seen any
research about it to be honest.
>> RM: Well, what about coffee?
I mean how can coffee--
I've never read those
two things before,
so I find them interesting.
>> LM: Yeah.
Well, again, there's
something in coffee
that again stimulates
the skin to prevent,
you know, to prevent sun burn.
And just allows you to be out
there a little bit longer.
And so, I think the whole
idea is that we need some,
we need to be out unprotected
for at least 10-15
minutes a day.
So, I think people have
to be really careful
about not slathering to
much of the stuff on.
Use these kinds of things like
chocolate whenever possible.
And also use-- look at
natural sun screens,
we cover in a current
issue coming up.
Natural sun screens to use, so
that people can buy these stuff
that doesn't have the
worst of the chemicals.
>> RM: Yes, what about
[inaudible] kind of backing off
from all these, stay out of the
sun, oh, herbs are dangerous
but our pharmaceuticals are OK
for you when we know better.
What about-- I mean I don't
know if you go on to something
as controversial as chemtrails,
that's dropping enough a lot
of aluminum on the public
at large around the world.
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: Do you and all of these
see a larger picture in terms
of the suppression
of all things natural
to keep us feeling vital, alive
even connected with each other?
Do you see--
>> LM: You mean some sort
of massive conspiracy.
>> RM: Yeah.
A larger one.
>> LM: I don't go there only
because I try to, you know,
that is an area that you
couldn't really prove.
And I try to stay very grounded
in our publication with,
"Hey, here's the evidence."
And we even have the
medical references
in a nice little
tidy box for anyone
who wants to look at that.
So, I don't go there,
but I do see it as part
of a concerted economic
conspiracy in a sense.
I mean this is big money, we're
talking about big money is--
and the tube area is a big money
or big format and big food.
And big food is everything,
that's why we have GMO crops
so that we can create more crops
to sell and using pesticides
and fertilizers and all
of those kinds of links.
>> RM: Weakening the
plants, weakening the people.
>> LM: Well, but again,
just staying away from that.
>> RM: Yeah, I'm saying
that's part of it.
>> LM: Yeah.
But even if you don't
look at that,
you can see a big enough
economic conspiracy
in the idea of that.
Look, it's all about
making money.
And so, it's that short
sided approach of, you know,
we're working just
for our stockholders,
not for all the stakeholders
who eat our products, et cetera.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: And not for the planet.
>> RM: And you're very clear on
where you want to go with it,
and you're very clear on
giving signs backed information
or at least evidence
backed information
so people can make
their own decisions.
And if you happen to be
more wired toward the notion
of larger conspiracies
as it were which I'd been
in that world long
enough for I'm--
I kind of go there,
I mean if you--
>> LM: Sure.
>> RM: If you look at
the Bilderberg meetings
for example each year,
big format is always center
stage in the attendees.
And they're-- they look
at long term agenda's
that there planning
when they're together.
Economically and otherwise
so, the point is you--
I don't think everybody
has to go there personally,
I don't mean to put
you on the spot.
>> LM: Sure.
>> RM: The point is, you're
putting the information
out that would indicate,
if you're going to go
that way what actually
is going on.
And so I appreciate
that diligence.
>> LM: We just want to
provide the proof and we try
to provide things
that are unassailable.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: And we found even
when the medical literature,
you know, when the medical
publications have tried to write
about us, they're really
scratching around trying
to attack us via our advertisers
or something like that,
you know, or trying to
find anything they can.
But we try to make them air
tight full of medical research
but done in a very readable way.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: So, the people
can take what they need
to take from these.
>> RM: Well, in you're--
a good solid old fashion
journalist I mean you--
you cover your basis
and you do the research,
there's so many blogs
and sites out there some
of which are wonderful,
I mean there's some
I look at regularly.
But a lot of them not so much,
the diligence hasn't been done
to really look at the
signs one way or the other.
And so, I have a great
deal of respect that you go
to that link enough that these
other forces actually want
to attack you, that only gives
more credence in my mind.
>> LM: Yeah, I mean I think
what's really important is to be
if you are going to put
your self in that position
and you're going to attack,
you know, I always say
that if you're going to
be completely outrageous
and radical you have to do it
with a very conservative cover.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: And so, that's
what we try to do.
>> RM: Yeah, we'll take a-- it
looks like a women's magazine.
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: There's a lot
more than that to it--
>> LM: Yeah.
>> RM: What about yourself,
now you have spent--
what did you say about 25 years
examining all these things
because of health issues you had
when you were younger
and so forth.
What have you come to utilize
and find great value
in for yourself?
>> LM: I use pick and mix
on alternative medicine.
First of all my children have
grown up with homeopathy,
they have kits if they
go off on something,
they take homeopathic kits with
them, and we have the ability
to just call up homeopathic
hot lines in the UK.
If there's a problem, if one
of my daughter's has a flu
or something, I can call up
and find out what to give her.
And I use that, I use
a lot of acupuncture.
My husband is more
of a herbalist guy.
So, he gets herbal medicine and
that works really well for him.
I've like some of the emotional
freedom technique type things.
It just really depends
obviously functional medicine
where big vitamin takers in our
house, we have an organic house.
I go to a farmers market
and buy fresh organic leaves
for everyone, you
know, over the weekends
and just make sure
everything is home cooked
and fresh every single day.
>> RM: Good for you.
[laughs] I try to do basically
the same, and get pretty close,
maybe not quite as diligence.
>> LM: Yeah.
But I mean, I'm not a purest.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: I like going
out for meal, you know,
like anybody having
a glass of wine.
But I just try to make
sure that it's, you know,
that the food is not processed
during some way interfered
with basically.
And try to make sure that
there's a healthy plate,
you know, in front of
everybody everyday.
>> RM: What about the
subject of animal protein,
because I obviously we're
looking at two different issue,
some people say,
"The time has past,
humans don't need
animal protein."
Other people say, "Uh,
I'm sick without it,
you know I just feel
like I'm dying."
And we are looking
at quality issues
and drugging issues and so fort.
How is your magazine approach
the subject of animal proteins?
>> LM: OK, well, I approach
it through some of the work
of guy called William
Wolcott who was a disciple
of a guy called William Kelley
who was a cancer pioneer.
>> RM: All right yes, good work.
>> LM: And he found-- yeah,
he found that essentially
one man's meat is another
man's poison.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: If some people are
parasympathetic dominant
with their bodies and other
people are sympathetic dominant,
and what that comes down to,
is that food of one variety
or another or a carbohydrate
for instance.
We'll have a completely
opposite effect on someone
who has the other thing,
the other dominants.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: And so, he found some
people essentially need more
carbs than others, some people
need more protein than others,
some people need more meat,
and some people need
just vegetarian.
So, I think it's-- you know,
we're biochemically individual.
So, well, I am very sympathetic
to the whole vegetarian idea,
and I'm very much against
in our magazine is very much
against any kind of
mass produced farming.
And, you know, and
battering hands
and battery farming
et cetera and the kind
of meat markets that they have.
Some people need meat and
so I think that, you know,
we as [inaudible] organic
meat, and for people to look
at their-- this is sort
of beyond blood type,
its look at their
metabolic type.
>> RM: That's where Kelley's
work really was, was that--
oxidization versus slow.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: Oxidization--
>> LM: Exactly.
>> RM: Most people fall in
more one group than the other--
>> LM: Exactly.
>> RM: And if you're trying to
leave it out via philosophy,
leave one out that's
not your oxidation type
that can be real trouble.
I mean and that's where
this whole thing about meats
and animal proteins have
come up again so many people
like self vegetarian
in 20 years.
You start seeing that there's
a breakdown that can occur
and the same thing the other
way, you're eating meats
when your body wants more
complex carbohydrates.
But it's a touchy subject
for a lot of people
and that's also become
big business.
>> LM: Absolutely and I think
that its important to find out,
you know, your generic
type, your bio-chemical type
but mainly your bio-chemical
type, your metabolic type,
and then do what
makes you feel best,
but eat the healthiest
food you can.
>> RM: Yes, absolutely.
>> LM: And don't over do it.
>> RM: No matter which one.
>> LM: Yeah, and don't
over do it on meat,
I mean we've had too many--
and don't over do it on carbs.
>> RM: Right.
>> LM: You know, I mean
that's the other problem too.
>> RM: What happen with that
food pyramid in America,
I think we picked up like 15
percent body fat and mass.
>> LM: Oh yes, absolutely.
>> RM: Yeah.
>> LM: And, you know,
that whole emphasis
on carbs being the best
thing to do was really--
now, that was very much big
food backed, because of course,
do you know cabs its all
processed stuff, yeah.
>> RM: Highly profitable
for them.
>> LM: Yeah, exactly.
>> RM: We're going to have a
second conversation its going
to really explore another
great controversial issue.
So, we'll take a little break
and then we'll come back
and continue our conversation,
but than you for that.
And, hey, just before we
go we have just the second,
any of the typologies,
are there some self test
that you recognize or you-- that
you would recommend for people
that want to do their
own typology.
>> LM: I love William
Wolcott's healthexcel.com.
>> RM: OK.
>> LM: Because he has simple
metabolic typing test you can
take, very inexpensive,
you can dot that.
I like for those people who can
afford it the kinds of test,
I mean, that-- parasite
test are really important.
Looking at leaky gut
is really important.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: Looking at your vitamin
mineral profile is important,
because, you know, particularly
as people age, you know,
they get to be more
and more deficient
in things like chromium.
>> RM: Yes.
>> LM: And, you know, when
things like magnesium and zinc,
everybody is deficient in zinc.
So, finding out rather that
just, you know, a scatter going
to approach, it's really
great if you can to get tested
and find out what you need
and to create a program
good for you.
>> RM: Excellent,
healthexcel.com
for you metabolic type.
>> LM: Yes.
>> RM: And you want to
get back in parasite test
and what was the last one?
>> LM: Just to have a
good vitamin mineral test.
>> RM: Oh, vitamin mineral
test, OK, great, good.
>> LM: Yeah, see where you are.
>> RM: OK, thank you so much.
In our nest conversation Lynne
and I will be discussing
the assumption
that marker genes will
manifest into disease.
In other words, was it
wise for Angelina Jolie
to have her breast removed over
fear from a genetic read out?
Again, you can find Lynne's new
magazine What Doctors Don't Tell
You by going to wddty.com
or you can go
to Whole Foods magazine
department,
and online registration is also
available as well as an app.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[ Music ]